[Home]( https://pbm15.github.io/Mitchell-Portfolio/) | [Visualizing Debt](visualizing-government-debt) | [Assignment 3+4](Assignment-3-4) | [Final Part 1](Final-Part-1) | [Final Part 2](final-project-part-two) | [Final Part 3](final-project-part-3)

# FINAL STORY (SHORTHAND LINK)
https://carnegiemellon.shorthandstories.com/a-storm-is-brewing-the-climate-crisis/index.html

# Final Writeup
For this project, we started by learning the basics of Github, Tableau, and Shorthand. During this time, I also started to think about the types of data I could use to tell a story. I was debating between something with climate change or something to do with housing. I ended up going with climate change after the class, where we learned how to use pages, as I thought I would be able to create a unique way to show climate change data over time. I picked climate change and focused on the increasing global temperature and the increasing number of tropical cyclones.   <be>   

To start to tell this story, I first had to find my data, and to do this, I used NOAA as my main source as I already knew they tracked the data I needed. The only issue with this data was that the data sets were massive. I ended up with a data set of over 50,000 entries, and I had to pull the data I needed from it. I am not a good coder, so to accomplish this task, I had to find a way to do it in Excel. I sorted the data by year, then the cyclone number for that year, and then by the max wind speed. From this, I was then able to make a function that subtracted the cyclone number of the one entry from the one below it. This then produced either 0 or another number if it was 0; that was data from the same storm that could be removed, and all other numbers were to be kept. Using the sorting function, I was then able to remove all rows that contained 0 to be left with my final data set. At this point, we started to outline and storyboard ideas for the visuals we would make. From these sketches, I made my first versions of my tables in Tableau, followed by another updated set after I figured out how to make my idea with pages work. To do this, I had to further edit my data by converting the date column to a whole number and then subtracting the "year" from the string. In order to make sure that the years were subtracted properly, I used the year column. I then added the year 2000 back to the data and then converted the number back to a date. This data was then able to be used as my x-axis while sorting the pages by year to create my scrolling chart.  <be>   

I also worked on my shorthand webpage by creating an outline for my story. I also made visual changes to my graphs to help them tell their stories. In addition, I also added some titles and edited the axes to be more accurate to the data. In terms of what I did for shorthand, I found non-copyrighted images, added links to organization, and filled out the outlined story I made in part two. I also implemented the change of adding some definitions for words or concepts that would not be considered common knowledge. Most of the changes made to the visuals and the writing that were not planned in part 2 were due to the notes from my interviews, specifically the notes about the use of color and adding definitions for some keywords and ideas. These changes were made to specifically make it easier for the audience to understand the story and visualy process the data in my graphs.
